# Release Note 6.0.0 ML Reports Service

This version contains set of manual activites tasks that must be completed in order to improve to upgrade the ML Reports service code to 6.0.0. Please consider the following list of tasks to be completed.


### Deploy ml-reports-services

To retrieve the latest release tag for version 6.0.0, please visit the following URL: https://github.com/project-sunbird/ml-reports-service/tags e.g. release-6.0.0_RC4


To proceed with the deployment process, follow the steps below:

    1. Log in to Jenkins.
    2. Navigate to Dashboard -> AutoBuild -> StagingManual -> managed-learn -> ml-reports-service. OR for dev Navigate to Dashboard -> Build -> managed-learn -> ml-reports-service
    3. Click on "Build with parameters" and provide the latest release tag in the field labeled "github_release_tag". Initiate the build process.
    4. The build job will take approximately 5 minutes to complete.
    5. After the job finishes, go to Dashboard -> Deploy -> staging -> managed-learn -> ml-reports-service. OR for dev go to Dashboard -> Deploy -> dev -> managed-learn -> ml-reports-service This job will be executed automatically in the dev environment. If not, then it should be built manually.
    6. Click on "Build with parameters" to initiate the deployment process.
    7. Once the job is completed, the services will be deployed on the staging environment


## Devops Changes:


### New Environment Keys Added

We added new environment keys to the DevOps repository ([PR link](https://github.com/project-sunbird/sunbird-devops/pull/3737)) to as required for new features and functionality. For configuration and access to outside services or resources, these keys will be utilised.

Please note you don't need to deploy the DevOps repo. Once the PR is merged, deploy this service, env variable will automatically add from the DevOps branch.

In this release, we have introduced four new environment variables. 

    PROJECT_RESOURCE_DATASOURCE_NAME = {{ml_project_resource_datasource_name | default("ml-project-status")}}
    OBSERVATION_RESOURCE_DATASOURCE_NAME = {{ml_observation_resource_datasource_name | default("ml-obs-status")}}
    SURVEY_RESOURCE_DATASOURCE_NAME = {{ml_survey_resource_datasource_name | default("ml-survey-status")}}
    PROGRAM_RESOURCE_DATASOURCE_NAME = {{ml_program_resource_datasource_name | default("ml-user-program")}}

**The value of these keys can be overridden or have values defined as needed using the private devops Repo**

### Created New APIs and Running the Kong File

We have created new APIs as part of this version to provide the system more capability. The Kong file must be run in order to guarantee seamless integration and effective routing of these APIs. This will make it possible to manage and map API endpoints properly.

#### For Public APIs

There is no automatic deployment in the DevOps repo. We need to deploy it manually. To deploy the kong file changes please follow the below steps

    1. Login To the Jenkins
    2. Go to Dashboard -> Deploy -> dev {Environment} ->Kubernetes, then click on OnboardAPIs
    3. Click on Build with parameters -> build
    4. After the OnboardAPIs job is finished, From Kubernetes, click on OnboardConsumers
    5. Then Click on Build with parameters -> build

In this release, one api is moved from core service to reports called `/api/resource/mlreports/v1/filtervalues` has been added for get locations where program and solution is started.